In this video, I'm going to break down this sauce explainer mod by 11 Labs made totally in after effects. I'm going to break it down step by step so it's easy to follow even if you are total beginner. All the assets and the project file are linked in description below. So check them out after the video. And with that being said, let's dive in. So first thing first, we're going to start by creating a new solid layer. Then we're going to apply wave world effect to it. Make sure to change the view here to high up. Then open producer ground stimulation. Then copy my settings here.
After we finish creating this effect, we're going to pre-ompose our solid.
Make sure to copy the settings. Then we're going to stretch it out.
And you're going to apply a fast box blur effect to it. Then copy those settings.
Apply CC toner. Change tones here to pen tone.
And change the color to pink blue. And this dark blue.
After we finish creating this, we're going to apply glue effect.
Decrease the glow threshold. Then we can increase the radius and keep the opacity to one.
We can now scale it a bit and move it to the right.
We're going to select the pen tool, remove the fill and and increase the stroke width.
Then we're going to draw this path here.
We're going to apply fast box blur effect to it and decrease the radius a bit. Then you're going to track out the solid layer with that glow effect with that shape layer.
To make it looks more cleaner and more smooth, we can apply chromatic aberation effect from four. You can get it from the link in description below. Then using the trim park plugin, we're going to add in in and out trim part effect. Bring it in the middle of those K frames and click on the stop part to disable them. Then make an K frame for offset and just animated going from the right to the left.
Then go to the graph editor. Make sure you are in value graph. Just right click and select volume graph and copy my graph here.
So we have this background effect.
Then we're just going to apply fade in and out effect to it.
Next up, you're going to select the rounded rectangle. Then you're going to decrease the stroke width. Change the fill to gray or black. Then for the stroke, we're going to change the color to linear gradient and copy this gradient palette here.
We're going to draw a shape as you see here in the middle.
Then we're going to add some text to it. I'm going to change the phone to SF display.
I'm going to position our text here and maybe scale it down a bit.
Then we're going to select that shape layer. Duplicate it. Then we're going to scale it down using the size option here. Then you can move this handles here. So we can smooth out the gradient for the stroke.
This position is right here at the bottom left. Then we're going to increase the rad roundness a bit. Then adjust it as you see here.
Then we're going to go to flat icon and search for stopwatch. We're going to download this PNG file. You're going to search for loop icon two and for a compass.
Then you're going to position it right here. You're going to scale it down. Apply fill effect to it and change the color to white.
You're going to adjust the position of the icon. Then we're going to add this text to it.
Then select all three layers, duplicate them, and move them to the right.
Then we're going to change the text here. Increase the size of this box.
Then we're going to replace this stopwatch icon by the loop icon. To do this, we're going to import the loop icon. Then while selecting the stopwatch icon, we're going to hold alt on the keyboard and drop the loop icon above that stopwatch. So it will be auto replaced.
Then we're going to duplicate it one more time. Move it to the right here.
Then you're going to do do the same steps with the compass icon.
and you're going to change this text here.
Then you're going to change the blending mode for the main shape layer to lighten and pre-ompose all layers.
I'm going to make it sliding sliding from the right. So, position it right here. Make sure to enable the raster size option and the 3D as well. Then you're going to duplicate that solid for the background and check the trackmat option. Then you're going to hide it up. Then apply displace map. You can add sliding from the right animation using the position and opacity.
Select both K frames. Easy ease them. And copy my graph here.
Then we're going to move him bit to the right in the timeline.
You see here displacement map effect make it bit wavy. So you can animate it the horizontal and vertical displacement. Change it to 14 and add stopwatch or a key frame for both horizontal and vertical displacement.
Then move it move bit on the timeline and change it back to zero.
So we have the same effect in 11 laps out.
You can play with the K frames bit so it fit the scene and the flow.
Then you're going to select those two layers, duplicate them, move them at the top, and pre-ompose them. Then you're going to change the blending mode to odd. Then track mode them with with this box layer. Then we're going to select those two key frames and time reverse them.
Move it a bit earlier in the timeline.
Then we're going to make some adjustment for the size of this rectangle or this shape layer.
Then you select the pen tool, uncheck the fill and change the stroke to white.
Then draw this shape layer here.
Then you're going to do the same steps as before. We're going to add in and out trim path effect. Click on the start and end stop. Then you can animate the offset moving from the light from the right to the left.
Then we're going to add the taper. Can play with it as you see.
Then we're going to easy the key frames. Go to the volume graph. Then copy my graph here.
We're going to animate the stroke color from the white blue or this green.
We can add deep glow effect to it. Decrease the stroke width. Then lastly, you can add fade in and out effect to it.
After we finished smoothing out the the shape path, we're going to duplicate it and go to transform, flip vertical. Then you're going to adjust it here. Duplicate it one more time and move it on the top here. Then duplicate it for one last time. And we're going to flip it again vertical. And move it in the bottom here.
Then select all four layers and reduce the opacity.
So we have this animation.
After we finish creating this scene, we're going to create a new camera layer. Then you're going to create new null object. Make sure it's 3D and link the camera layer with it. Make position key frame. Move here on the right. and increase the Y position so we move our scene to the top. Select EK frame and easy ease them. Then we're going to create new adjustment layer. Go to the key frames and make sure to copy my graph here.
Then we're going to go on the top of this curve. Then I'm going to cut all the layers here using command shift and D from the keyboard to split all the layers.
Go to the adjustment layer and apply glow effect to it. Then you're going to add an exposure. Then just going to animate the exposure and going to play with the glow options here.
Let's add a key frame for the intensity of the glow. didn't just copy my settings here.
can add radial blur to it. Let's increase the amount a bit.
Even we can animate it. Increase enough from zero to to three or two. And you can adjust the center of this effect.
Then for the next part, we're going to go to 11 Labs website. Then using the go for page extension, you're going to take screenshot for the whole page and specifically for the sound effects section on the website. Then we're going to download it as PNG. You see it's high quality. I'm going to cut it out and scale it down.
Then you're going to select the rectangle tool and we're going to mask out each section separately from the whole layers.
So, we're going to duplicate this layer and move the mask. We're going to do the same step for each element of this screenshot.
After I finish masking each part here, going to select them all using the anchor point plugin from the MR horse.
We're going to move all the anchor point to the center and pre-ompose them first. Then go inside the comp and check the 3D for all layers. Before that, we can add rectangle layer here. So it's the background.
I'm going to change the color for the same color. Let's increase the roundness a bit.
Then make sure all layers are 3D and enable motion blur.
In order to add sliding up animation for each element, we're going to add position key frame. Then go back to the beginning and move all the layers to the bottom here. Then select all key frames and easy them and copy this graph.
Then select all the layers and we're going to offset them using the motion tools plugin. So just copy my settings here.
Let's go back to the main comp. Now, we're going to add an ellipse or a shape layer here.
add fail effect to it. Change the color to this. Apply fastbox blur and copy my settings. Then we're gonna just duplicate it, move it the other side. Then we're going to change the color to blue.
Then we're going to enable the roster surface option for this comp and 3D. You see it moved up. So to make to move it back in the center, we're going to hit command and home from the keyboard. Then you're going to add a position and X rotation key frame move on the beginning. Then you're going to decrease the X rotation. Then you're going to select the comp and move it here.
Can adjust the position of those two glow circles or glow layers.
These select both K frames erase them and copy my graph here.
Adjust the last portion. Let's move it on top here and scale it a bit.
Then you're going to go inside the comp and you're going to offset the layers.
You can adjust maybe the position of the last key frame. So we have smooth slide up.
Make sure the graph is like this.
Then you're going to apply an adjustment layer, apply a fast box blur effect to it. Then you're going to select the mask or the ellipse tool and you're going to draw a mask like this here on the bottom. Then we're going to increase the feather and move it to the top here so it covers this part of the section.
You can play a bit with the blur option so we have the best result.
Then you're going to create a new null object. And you're going to link up that comp with that null object. Go before the end of the first position animation for that comp. Add position key frame. Then move to the right. And we're going to move it to the top. And this coffee maker off here.
Lastly, we're going to duplicate the comp. Remove all K frames. Link it with the first comp.
I'm going to apply four color graded effect to it.
Then select the colors that match the theme. So it's green and blue.
Then you're going to apply a fast box blur effect to it and copy those settings. Even you can apply deep glow effect.
Lastly, you can decrease the opacity of the comp.
Even you can automate the exposure of the deep blue to much or to make the transition from between the scenes smoother. You're going to move this adjustment layer at the top. Then you're gonna duplicate or move the copy and paste the first key frames on the end. So we have fade out kind of animation.
The exposure is too much. So we're going to duplicate the adjustment layer or we're going to split it out. We're going to apply just a fade out animation for this adjustment layer using the opacity.
And to make this fade out or this feather effect in the bottom for the comp, you're going to add a mask. Then we're going to move it right here.
Then you're going to add key frame for the mask path. Then before the animation ends, we're going to move this mask path to the top. So it's kind of mask out the bottom part of this comp. And make sure to increase the feather so this looks smooth.
Then you're going to go some somewhere around this 5 seconds. Then you're going to cut all the layers using common D from the keyboard. Then right now you're going to create a new text layer. Apply automator effect to it. It's free. You can get it from the link in description below. Hit create here and wait. So it created this com for you which has all the characters, text and numbers.
Select the numbers on the left and we can change the font to SPO display.
Then here we're going to type this number.
You can increase the size a bit and maybe scale it down and reduce the tracking between each layer. Make sure to disable the fill color. Then you're going to move it here in the in the center. Then you're going to add a custom symbol. So to do this, you're going to select, let's say, you're going to select dollars and make sure it's on the right. Then you go inside comp that has been created. Then you're going to change the dollar sign to what you want to be shown instead. So let's type her.
So we have it here. Then we can adjust it or we can even we can scale down all the numbers as well. So we have the same size of the text.
Then we're going to make some tiny adjustments.
And make sure to add animation for the numbers from 44,000 to 48,000.
Then copy my graph here.
Then select both text layer and adometer comp that has been created and pre-ompose them. Then you're going to select the comp and make sure it's 3D.
Then we're going to just mask it out. So we can't we don't see anything else except the numbers in the center. Just increase the fader and you can play a bit with the mask path. Now let's add the fill effect. Change the color to white. Then we're going to animate it going from white to this orange. We're going to apply deep blue effect to it and a CC light sweep. Make sure the sweep effect is before the deep blue effect. And we're going to animate the center moving from the left to the right. We're going to animate the exposure of the deep glow effect too from 0 to 02.
Then move it back to zero.
Then to m transition with the before scene or the second scene, we're going to add slide up smooth light slide up animation. So just copy my graph here and make sure the motion blur option is enabled for all layers. So we have this till now.
and uh right now we're going to add a new object and click that comp play layer with that object. It's at position key frame before the animation ends.
increase or decrease the Z position so we have it coming towards the camera so it's scale up.
Then we're going to create a new object and we're going to do the same. We're going to link the first N with the second N. And before the animation ends, we're going to scale it down again. So, we're going to just increase the Z position so it go so it goes to the back and it scaled down.
Then we're going to cut the layer here and we're going to add F animation using opacity animating it from 100 to zero.
Now for the fourth scene, you're going to select the rounded rectangle tool.
Then you're going to draw this shape.
We're going to make it 3D. Hit control or command home to move it to the center. We're going to change the F color to block and the stroke to white.
We're going to change the stroke blend mode to overlay. And we're going to reduce opacity a bit and maybe decrease it. Then you're going to go to the first comp from the this comp from the first scene. Then we're going to copy this icon here, this stopwatch icon.
And I'm going to move it here. And I'm going to add this text.
Hit control. So it's snub with plus stopwatch icon. So you have them both on the same position.
Then we're going to move it to the right. Duplicate it and change the text here.
Then you're going to duplicate it one more time and one more last time and move it to the right. Let me move this icon. So because you don't need it and change those text layers for this second layer, we're going to add this num which is basically a counter effect. You can get it for free from the link in description. Change the custom trading. Then we're just going to type S from the keyboard. 8 seconds. Then we're going to change the numbers to 22 so we can animate it later. Let's search for another loop icon and this clock and settings icons.
Then we're going to replace them using the same process that we did before. So just holding selecting them holding alt from the keyboard and dropping them above the existing layers. So to replace them then we're going to select this top layer. Pick composite. Make sure to select the first option here.
disable the background so you can see. Then we're going to mask out each element from this icon.
Even we can recreate this so you can animate it. So I'm going to create it using the ellipse tool by disabling the fill and increasing the width stroke width and change the color to block.
Then we're going to animate it using the dream park plugin. So just hit this button going to change the round this this to rounded cup and we're just going to apply fading out effect for this element.
We're going to do the same for the rest icons. So just copy or follow me Yeah.
After we finished creating or recreating those icons, going to create another rounded rectangle here.
Make sure it's 3D and move it here on the bottom right.
Change the color to white. And we're going to add a text layer. So just type generate.
We're going to search for voice download and playlist icons so we can use them. These are the voice icon here.
We're going to hold shift on the keyboard and link it with the shape layer. This this shape layer so it took the same position of the shape layer. So it's easy to position it in the scene as you see here. After that, we're just going to scale it down and move it to the right. Then we can link it with it.
We're going to duplicate it. Move it to the top and duplicate it again. Then we're going to replace it those two icons with the download and the playlist icons while applying the white field effect to them.
Then here we're going to duplicate this text to add this text here. Maybe you can scale it a bit.
Then apply the blue effect to it and copy my settings.
Then finally apply the typewriter effect to this.
And for those two icons, we're going to do the same as we did before. So pre-omposing them and separating each element and creating them or so by creating mask and animating the stroke Perfect.
I'm going to do the same for this one. So, just going to recate those three lines and animate this play button.
We're going to animate the size roundness for the main shape layer.
Hit F9 and copy my graph here.
Then we're going to select all the layers above that background or that main shape layer. Then we're going to track them with the shape layer. Then we're going to unhide it. Then we're just going to move them further in timeline.
You can add some specific animation for this button in the bottom For this one, we're going to animate it sliding up. And for the text, we're just going to add a typewriter effect to it.
And for the rest, we're going to just offset them.
Then for the next scene, we're going to animate the size of the main shape layer and the position. So we have the mesh shape layer scaling down and showing only this timer or stopwatch or clock icon with the timer. Although with the counter Make sure to easy ease the key frames and copy my graph. Then you're going to select all the layers that except the clock icon and the counter. Then we're going to animate them fading out using the opacity from 100 to zero.
before the animation ends. So you have smooth fade Add position key frame for the null object that we have the camera linked with it.
Then just scale it up and play with it until we have this icon in the middle of the scene.
Then you're going to animate glow for this counter going from 0 to 02 or 03.
Okay.
Then I'm going to slot out this counter on the scene using the position key frame and just copy my graph.
Then for this element we can just recreate it. We can just add the rotation. We're going to recreate it later. So you can just skip this part using the pen tool. We're going to create this line here. Change the color and block and rounded cup.
Then using the dream park plugin, we're going to make this animation.
Copy and paste those two key frames and reverse them.
Then you're going to apply this this effect for this circle.
And for this element, we're just going to recreate it using the pen tool.
I made it to eight again.
I'm going to animate it from the beginning again.
Then here at the end, we're going to apply this animation to it.
After this text go up or go slide to the top out of the scene, we're going to create a new layer or we're going to duplicate the first one and change the text to loop.
Then we're going to go after the animation of the position ends. Then we're going to link it with the first text layer.
Can adjust those animations so it's bit shorter.
going to look for another loop icon.
So, we're just going to position it right here. Make sure it's 3D.
We're just going to select the pen tool and draw over it. So they have this infinite icon.
Then we're just going to make sure it's 3D and positioned in the scene. And using the park plugin, we're going to animate it.
Then after this infinite icon animation ends, you're going to add position for another position key frame for another object that I've currently included.
Increase the Z position. So we have all the elements go back. So it's scaled down.
Then go on the top of the curve here and we're going to add an opacity key frames for the for that shape layer. So we have it fed out.
Make sure that loop icon is tracked with the same shape layer.
Split all the layers here.
For the last scene, you're going to go to big and you're going to search for sound waves. You can use this one. So, it's an EPS file. So, we need to import it to Illustrator. So, we can separate each element first so we can animate it.
We just keep it as it is or as PNG maybe.
So after we have it saved as Illustrator file, going to import as composition. Go inside it and copy one of those. Make sure the rust size option is enabled.
Make sure it's 3D and hit command home. So it's in the center.
We're going to apply fill effect to it and change the color to white. Then we're going to duplicate it. Move one on the left and the second one on the right. link them with this one. So we can scale them then prempose them. Enable 3D and raster size option.
Move the anchor point here. Then you're going to select the rectangle tool and draw a mask in the middle layer.
Then we're going to animate it. We're going to add an expanding out animation using the mask expansion.
So animate it going from minus values to something higher.
Then we're going to reduce main opacity of the comp.
And make sure to change the mask mode to subtract. And maybe increasing the fader a bit.
After that, we're going to duplicate this comp, increase the opacity, and we're going to remove this mask expansion. Make sure to change the mask mode to odd. And we're just going to flip the animation. Then you're going to just do this animation, the same animation, going from minus values to something higher.
So, we have the reversed animation. Maybe increase the f a bit and move the last key frame at the end until it fits.
We're going to create a new object. Then the first null with the second null. Then add the position key frame. Then increase the Z position. So we have this zoom out animation.
You can add the more duplicate.
We're going to add another K frame here and move the last one in the right. So we have you're going to link the first comp with second one and go to the second one at position key frame and mask both.
Then move the right and move them at the same time.
Then we just create a new text layer and type this text here.
Then using the precify plugin, we're going to add this light up by word animation. You can adjust it a bit.
Then we're going to add fade in animation using the positive key frames.
And lastly, we can make this animation bit faster. Then we can make some adjustment for the key frames of the camera the smoothest result as possible.
Then on the end make sure to enable motion blur. And this is what you got.
So, this was the tutorial today. I hope you guys enjoyed watching it. Make sure to like and subscribe for more content like this. If you want to see more tutorials like this, just let me know in the comment section. Make sure to recreate so you can learn more. And with that being said, peace out.